<!--
  CHAPTER PYBLOSXOM
-->
<chapter id="pyblosxom">
<title>PyBlosxom</title>

<sect1 id="chap_pyblosxom">
<title>About PyBlosxom</title>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a lightweight weblog system.  It was originally a
Python clone of Blosxom but has since evolved into a weblog system of its
own reminiscent of Blosxom.  PyBlosxom focuses on three things:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
simplicity - PyBlosxom uses the file system for all its data storage.  Because 
of this you can use whatever editor you want to use to create, update, and 
manipulate entries.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
extensibility - PyBlosxom has plugin framework allowing you to build plugins in 
Python to augment and change PyBlosxom's default behavior.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
community - There are several hundred PyBlosxom users out there all of whom 
have different needs.  PyBlosxom is used on a variety of operating systems 
in a variety of environments.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a pretty straight-forward system that allows you to do the things 
you need to do without building everything from scratch.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title>Who shouldn't use PyBlosxom</title>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a small project.  As such, we have no customer support hotline,
our documentation will be eternally half-done, and it's likely you will run
into problems eventually.  PyBlosxom offers mailing lists through
SourceForge for support, we do have some documentation, and you're 
encouraged to read the code.
</para>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a CGI program at its heart.  While there have been changes to
make it work with WSGI and mod_python and other web-servers, it's still
architected as a CGI program.  Using it in other ways may cause headaches.
</para>
<para>
PyBlosxom by default uses the file-system to store entries where each
entry is a separate file with the mtime of the file acting as the time
stamp.  Files are stored in a directory hierarchy which matches the
category structure of your blog.  As such, each entry ends up in a single
category.
</para>
<para>
We recognize that PyBlosxom will never be all things to all people and
thus PyBlosxom has a framework for building plugins that are written in
Python which allow you to augment and override the default behavior.  There
are many plugins out there already, but it's likely that you will have
needs that aren't met adequately.  If you don't have any interest in
tinkering with plugins, then it's possible PyBlosxom is not for you.
</para>
<para>
If this program doesn't sound like something that will meet your needs
or if this sounds like it's going to be really frustrating, we don't think
you should use PyBlosxom.  There are many other weblog systems out there
which meet a wide variety of needs--there's no need to try to shoe-horn
PyBlosxom into your requirements and get frustrated in the process.
</para>
<para>
However, if this invigorates you, join the mailing lists and we'll work 
together to make PyBlosxom better for all of us.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title>Where to go for help</title>
<para>
The PyBlosxom project web-site is at <ulink
url="http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net/">hosted on SourceForge</ulink>.
There you can find up-to-date documentation, manuals, project status
and mailing list information.
</para>
<para>
The pyblosxom-users mailing list is the place to go if you're having 
difficulties.  Discussions from the mailing list affect the content of 
this manual. Mailing list information can be found on our <ulink
url="http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net/blog/static/contact">Contact
Us</ulink> page.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>
