<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd" [
<!ENTITY chapter_pyblosxom SYSTEM "chapter_pyblosxom.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_installation  SYSTEM "chapter_installation.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_advanced_installation SYSTEM "chapter_advanced_installation.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_flavours SYSTEM "chapter_flavours.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_plugins SYSTEM "chapter_plugins.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_writing_entries SYSTEM "chapter_writing_entries.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_static_rendering SYSTEM "chapter_static_rendering.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_comments SYSTEM "chapter_comments.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_syndication SYSTEM "chapter_syndication.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_architecture SYSTEM "chapter_architecture.docbook">
<!ENTITY chapter_writing_plugins SYSTEM "chapter_writing_plugins.docbook">

<!ENTITY appendix_config_variables SYSTEM "appendix_config_variables.docbook">
<!ENTITY appendix_gfdl SYSTEM "appendix_gfdl.docbook">
]>

<book lang="en">

<bookinfo>
<title>PyBlosxom Manual</title>
<subtitle>PyBlosxom Manual for PyBlosxom 1.3.1</subtitle>
<edition>PyBlosxom Manual for PyBlosxom 1.3.1</edition>

<!--
  If you do any editing on this document, add your name to the below
  author list.
-->
<authorgroup>
<author>
  <firstname>Will</firstname>
  <surname>Guaraldi</surname>
  <contrib>Primary author</contrib>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<date>$Date$</date>
<releaseinfo>$Id$</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
  <year>2005, 2006</year>
  <holder>Will Guaraldi</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>
<para>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Will Guaraldi.  Permission is granted to copy, 
distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free 
Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free 
Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being no Invariant Sections, 
with the Front-Cover Texts being no Front-Cover Texts, and with the Back-Cover 
Texts being no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the 
appendix entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".
</para>
</legalnotice>

<abstract>
<para>
This manual will cover all aspects of using and developing for PyBlosxom.  It
is a work in progress.
</para>
<para>
Version: 1.3.3
</para>
</abstract>

</bookinfo>



<toc></toc>

<!--
  INTRODUCTION
-->
<preface id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>
<sect1 id="mission">
<title>Mission, What's Missing, and Helping Out</title>
<para>
The mission of this manual is to cover all aspects of using and developing for
<ulink url="http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net">Pyblosxom</ulink>.  It 
is very much a work in progress. However, we do promise that the manual 
will get better over time.
</para>
<para>
This manual will always be free.  It's licensed under the GFDL.  The manual
is (poorly) version controlled along with the rest of PyBlosxom in the
SVN repository at SourceForge.  That's a boon because everyone can
see the current state.
</para>
<para>
There's no list of what's missing, however, there are a series of FIXMEs
placed around the document with some details as to what needs to be provided
and/or fixed.  I'm sure there are things missing that have been completely
overlooked as well.  This can change if someone wants to organize a list
of missing topics (which would then probably cause a reorganization of the
manual to account for those topics).
</para>
<para>
If you want to help out with documentation, let us know on the <ulink
url="mailto:pyblosxom-devel@lists.sourceforge.net">pyblosxom-devel</ulink>
mailing list.  If you notice errors, missing pieces, sections that are 
unclear, examples that are erroneous, or anything else, let us know on the 
<ulink
url="mailto:pyblosxom-devel@lists.sourceforge.net">pyblosxom-devel</ulink>
mailing list.
</para>
<para>
Details of mailing lists and other contact information are on our web-site 
at <ulink
url="http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net/">http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net/.</ulink>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title>Revision History</title>
<para>
1.3.1 - 2006-02-02 - wbg
</para>
<para>
  Changed copyright information; added information on entryparsers; 
  added callback documentation; moved section on _escaped and 
  _urlencoded; added revhistory; changed document versioning; additional 
  tweaks.
</para>
<para>
1.3.2 - 2006-10-01 - wbg
</para>
<para>
  Removed <literal>content_type</literal> from the variable listing.
  Added some text regarding how variables are used in templates.  
  (Thanks Ryan!)
</para>
<para>
  Added <literal>codebase</literal> and <literal>locale</literal> to
  the appendix on config variables.
</para>
<para>
1.3.3 - 2006-11-27 - lll
</para>
<para>
Modifications of Makefile to allow PDF and single file HTML documents.  
Modifications to non-code specific areas needing clarification or updating.  
Added Docbook HTML links in many places.  (Thanks Lance!)
</para>
</sect1>

</preface>



&chapter_pyblosxom;
&chapter_installation;
&chapter_advanced_installation;
&chapter_flavours;
&chapter_plugins;
&chapter_writing_entries;
&chapter_static_rendering;
&chapter_comments;
&chapter_syndication;
&chapter_architecture;
&chapter_writing_plugins;

&appendix_config_variables;
&appendix_gfdl;

</book>
