docs/plugins/pycalendar.rst, before:

====================
 Plugin: pycalendar 
====================

Summary
=======

Generates a calendar along the lines of this one (with month and day names in
the configured locale)::

    <   January 2003   >
    Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa Su
           1  2  3  4  5
     6  7  8  9 10 11 12
    13 14 15 16 17 18 19
    20 21 22 23 24 25 26
    27 28 29 30 31

It walks through all your entries and marks the dates that have entries
so you can click on the date and see entries for that date.


Install
=======

1. Add ``Pyblosxom.plugins.pycalendar`` to your ``load_plugins`` list in your
   ``config.py`` file.

2. Configure it as documented below.

3. Add the ``$(calendar)`` variable to your head and/or foot template.


Configuration
=============

You can set the start of the week using the ``calendar_firstweekday``
configuration setting, for example::

   py['calendar_firstweekday'] = 0

will make the week start on Monday (day '0'), instead of Sunday (day '6').

Pycalendar is locale-aware.  If you set the ``locale`` config property,
then month and day names will be displayed according to your locale.

It uses the following CSS classes:

* blosxomCalendar: for the calendar table
* blosxomCalendarHead: for the month year header (January 2003)
* blosxomCalendarWeekHeader: for the week header (Su, Mo, Tu, ...)
* blosxomCalendarEmpty: for filler days
* blosxomCalendarCell: for calendar days that aren't today
* blosxomCalendarBlogged: for calendar days that aren't today that
  have entries
* blosxomCalendarSpecificDay: for the specific day we're looking at
  (if we're looking at a specific day)
* blosxomCalendarToday: for today's calendar day

Commit message:

Update plugin documentation and extraction

docs/plugins/pycalendar.rst, after:


.. only:: text

   This document file was automatically generated.  If you want to edit
   the documentation, DON'T do it here--do it in the docstring of the
   appropriate plugin.  Plugins are located in ``Pyblosxom/plugins/``.


==================================================
 pycalendar - Displays a calendar on your blog....
==================================================

Summary
=======

Generates a calendar along the lines of this one (with month and day names in
the configured locale)::

    <   January 2003   >
    Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa Su
           1  2  3  4  5
     6  7  8  9 10 11 12
    13 14 15 16 17 18 19
    20 21 22 23 24 25 26
    27 28 29 30 31

It walks through all your entries and marks the dates that have entries
so you can click on the date and see entries for that date.


Install
=======

This plugin comes with Pyblosxom.  To install, do the following:

1. Add ``Pyblosxom.plugins.pycalendar`` to your ``load_plugins`` list in your
   ``config.py`` file.

2. Configure it as documented below.

3. Add the ``$(calendar)`` variable to your head and/or foot template.


Configuration
=============

You can set the start of the week using the ``calendar_firstweekday``
configuration setting, for example::

   py['calendar_firstweekday'] = 0

will make the week start on Monday (day '0'), instead of Sunday (day '6').

Pycalendar is locale-aware.  If you set the ``locale`` config property,
then month and day names will be displayed according to your locale.

It uses the following CSS classes:

* blosxomCalendar: for the calendar table
* blosxomCalendarHead: for the month year header (January 2003)
* blosxomCalendarWeekHeader: for the week header (Su, Mo, Tu, ...)
* blosxomCalendarEmpty: for filler days
* blosxomCalendarCell: for calendar days that aren't today
* blosxomCalendarBlogged: for calendar days that aren't today that
  have entries
* blosxomCalendarSpecificDay: for the specific day we're looking at
  (if we're looking at a specific day)
* blosxomCalendarToday: for today's calendar day
