<!--
  CHAPTER PYBLOSXOM
-->
<chapter id="pyblosxom">
<title>PyBlosxom</title>

<sect1><title>About PyBlosxom</title>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a lightweight weblog system.  It originally started out 
as a Python clone of Blosxom but has since evolved into a beast of its 
own.  PyBlosxom focuses on three things:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
simplicity - PyBlosxom uses the file system for all its data storage.  Because 
of this you can use whatever editor you want to use to create, update, and 
manipulate entries.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
extensibility - PyBlosxom has plugin framework allowing you to build plugins in 
Python to augment and change PyBlosxom's default behavior.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
community - There are several hundred PyBlosxom users out there all of whom 
have different needs.  PyBlosxom is used on a variety of operating systems 
in a variety of environments.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a pretty straight-forward system that allows you to do the things 
you need to do without building everything from scratch.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title>Who shouldn't use PyBlosxom</title>
<para>
FIXME - this needs to be re-written and more concise.
</para>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a small project.  As such, we have no customer support hotline,
our documentation will be eternally half-done, and it's likely you will run
into problems eventually unless you want a bare-bones blog.
</para>
<para>
PyBlosxom is a CGI program at its heart.  While there ahve been changes to
make it work with WSGI and mod_python and other web-servers, it's still
architected as a CGI program.  Using it in other ways may cause headaches.
</para>
<para>
If this sort of thing infuriates you, we don't think you should use PyBlosxom.
</para>
<para>
PyBlosxom is not all things to all people.  We have a framework that allows
for plugins to be built, but if you're not into building plugins, then it's
possible that PyBlosxom may not fit your needs.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1>
<title>Where to go for help</title>
<para>
The PyBlosxom project web-site is at http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net/ .  There
you can find up-to-date documentation, manuals, project status and mailing list
information.
</para>
<para>
The pyblosxom-users mailing list is the place to go if you're having 
difficulties.  Discussions from the mailing list affect the content of 
this manual.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>
