<!--
  ENTRY PARSERS
-->
<chapter id="entryparsers">
<title>Entry Parsers</title>
<para>
PyBlosxom supports only one format for entry files by default.  This format
is the same format that blosxom uses.  The extension for this format is 
<filename>.txt</filename>.  The first line of the file is in plain text and 
forms the title of the entry.  The second line through the end of the file is 
in HTML and is the body of the entry.
</para>
<para>
A sample blog entry could look like this:
</para>
<programlisting role="text"><![CDATA[
First post
<p>
  Here's the body of my first post.
</p>
]]></programlisting>

<para>
Some people really detest writing in HTML which is valid.  Other 
people use their entries in other places, so they need a markup format 
that's less web-oriented.  Some folks write a lot of material in a non-HTML 
markup format and would like to use that same format for blog entries.  
These are all very valid reasons to want to use other markup formats.
</para>
<para>
PyBlosxom allows you to install entry parser plugins which are PyBlosxom 
plugins that implement an entry parser.  These entry parser plugins allow 
you to use other markup formats.  Check the Plugin Registry at 
http://pyblosxom.sourceforge.net/ for which entry parsers are available.
</para>
<para>
In general, we only have entry parsers written by people who really 
wanted that markup format.  If you don't see your favorite markup format 
represented, try looking at the code for other entry parsers and implement 
it yourself.  If you need help, talk to us on the pyblosxom-users or 
pyblosxom-devel mailing lists.
</para>
<para>
Details on the various entry parsers should be at the top of the entry
parser plugin itself in the Python doc-string.
</para>
</chapter>
